**Energy Potential for Photovoltaic (PV)** 

Energy potential for photovoltaic systems (ground-mounted, building-integrated, and total) in Austria for current status (2023 – total only), future projection (2030 & 2040\) and the technical potential at regional level within Austria, depicted at the level of Austrian municipalities.

The map contains information on following parameters: 

* **Energy (E)**: Annual electricity generated by PV, in GWh<sub>el</sub> per year  
* **Capacity (C)** Installed capacity of PV, in MW<sub>el</sub> 
* **Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE):** Levelized cost per unit of generated electricity from PV, in EUR per MWh<sub>el</sub>  
* **Market Value (MV):** Revenues that PV producers may gain from selling the electricity on the wholesale electricity market, in EUR per MWh<sub>el</sub>

**Technical potential** represents the maximum energy flow under physical and technical constraints, such as efficiency and spatial limitations. **Realisable potential for 2030 and 2040** considers practical barriers like leap times for practical implementation, market conditions, and economic feasibility.

Realisable potential for 2030 and 2040 are provided with defined ranges: ***Low*** (conservative and less ambitious), ***Medium*** (realistic with a high likelihood of occurrence) and ***High*** (optimistic and ambitious).

The map includes **potentials without the effects of climate change (WOCC)**, with **moderate climate change (RCP4.5 \- MOCC)** and **strong climate change effects (RCP8.5 – STCC)**.

The underlying study, “Renewable Energy Potentials in Austria for 2030 and 2040,” was conducted on behalf of the Climate and Energy Fund and was financed with appropriations from the former Federal Ministry for Climate Action, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology (BMK).

[download raw building-integrated data as GeoJSON](https://workspace-ui-public.gtif-austria.hub-otc.eox.at/api/public/share/public-4wazei3y-02/KLIEN-studie/pv/pv_buildings/pv_buildings_EEPOT_W23.geojson)

[download raw building-integrated data as CSV](https://workspace-ui-public.gtif-austria.hub-otc.eox.at/api/public/share/public-4wazei3y-02/KLIEN-studie/pv/pv_buildings/PV_buildings_EEPOT.csv)

[download raw ground-mounted sealed data as GeoJSON](https://workspace-ui-public.gtif-austria.hub-otc.eox.at/api/public/share/public-4wazei3y-02/KLIEN-studie/pv/pv_ground_mounted_sealed/pv_ground_mounted_sealed_EEPOT_W23.geojson)

[download raw ground-mounted sealed data as CSV](https://workspace-ui-public.gtif-austria.hub-otc.eox.at/api/public/share/public-4wazei3y-02/KLIEN-studie/pv/pv_ground_mounted_sealed/PV_ground_mounted_sealed_EEPOT.csv)

[download raw ground-mounted unsealed data as GeoJSON](https://workspace-ui-public.gtif-austria.hub-otc.eox.at/api/public/share/public-4wazei3y-02/KLIEN-studie/pv/pv_ground_mounted_unsealed/pv_ground_mounted_unsealed_EEPOT_W23.geojson)

[download raw ground-mounted unsealed data as CSV](https://workspace-ui-public.gtif-austria.hub-otc.eox.at/api/public/share/public-4wazei3y-02/KLIEN-studie/pv/pv_ground_mounted_unsealed/PV_ground_mounted_unsealed_EEPOT.csv)
 
[download raw total data as GeoJSON](https://workspace-ui-public.gtif-austria.hub-otc.eox.at/api/public/share/public-4wazei3y-02/KLIEN-studie/pv/pv_total/pv_total_EEPOT_W23.geojson)

[download raw total data as CSV](https://workspace-ui-public.gtif-austria.hub-otc.eox.at/api/public/share/public-4wazei3y-02/KLIEN-studie/pv/pv_total/PV_total_EEPOT.csv)

**Please cite the source when using these data:**
G. Resch, B. Mayr, B., Gahleitner, E. Haslinger, S. Böhmer, M. B. Broer, C. Brendle, G. Eisenkölb, S. Nemetz, C. Elser-Amann, A. Storch, D. Trauner, P. Weiss, R. Wasserbauer, A. Stökl, A. Krenn, F. Mauthner, W. Gruber-Glatzl, J. Pfleger, A. Stöger, L. Kranzl, F. Radosits, F. Schipfer, P. Valent, 2026. Erneuerbare Energiepotenziale in Österreich für 2030 und 2040.

License: Released under the CC BY 4.0 licence.